Homework 1
================

## Problem 1

``` r
library(moderndive)
```

``` r
library(tidyverse) 
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.4     ✔ readr     2.1.5
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.1
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.5.2     ✔ tibble    3.3.0
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.4     ✔ tidyr     1.3.1
    ## ✔ purrr     1.1.0     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

Here I loaded the library moderndive to allow me to load the dataset and
tidyverse to be able to use the pull functions when calculating mean.

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

I loaded the dataset above

The variable names in this dataset are origin, year, month, day, hour,
temp, dewp, humid, wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip, pressure,
visib, time_hour. Regarding the values/descriptive statistics of
important variables, the mean year is 2013, the mean dew point
temperature is 28.06, the mean humidity is 65.48, the mean wind
direction is 208.19, the mean wind speed is 8.23, the mean wind gust is
22.53, the mean precipitation is 0, the mean pressure is 1,022.55 and
the mean visibility is 8.52. I got this through the skimr::skim code The
dataset has 358 observations and 15 variables. The mean of the
temperature in the dataset is 39.5821229.

``` r
skimr::skim(early_january_weather)
```

I used inline code to identify the variable names, numerical values,
size of the data set, and mean of the temperature variable.

``` r
    ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x=time_hour, y=temp, color=humid)) + geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_mt3866_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave("hw1plot.pdf", height = 4, width = 6) 
```

I created this plot of time vs temp and used color to depict humditiy
levels. I then saved it as a pdf. In this plot, you can see that as the
time_hour increases the temperature generally increases in a zig-zag
pattern, with the exception of a sudden drop at the end. From Jan 7 to
Jan 14, the humidity rises but goes back down after Jan 14.

## Problem 2

``` r
hw1_df=
  tibble(
    numeric_samp = rnorm(10),
    greater_0 = numeric_samp > 0,
    vec_char = c("My", "homework", "assignment", "should", "have", "a", "character", "length", "of", "ten"),
    vec_factor = factor (c("low", "low", "low", "medium", "medium", "medium", "high", "high", "high", "high"))
  )
```

I created a data frame with a character vector length of 10, a factor
vector length of 10 and 3 factor levels, a random sample size of 10 from
a standard normal distribution, and a logical vector that indicated
whether elements of the sample are greater than 0.

The mean of the random sample in my new dataframe is -0.0638883.

The mean of the logical variable in my new dataframe is 0.5.

The mean of the character variable in my new dataframe is NA.

The mean of the factor variable in my new dataframe is NA.

I used inline code to pull the vectors out of the dataframe and take the
mean of them. Taking the mean of random and logical variables work, but
taking the mean of character and factor variables do not.

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw1_df,greater_0))
as.numeric(pull(hw1_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning: NAs introduced by coercion

``` r
as.numeric(pull(hw1_df,vec_factor))
```

I used the as.numeric function and used results=hide to hide the output
but allow the code to run and be seen. When I used the as.numeric
function, it converts the logical variables and factor variables to
numerical values, but leaves the character variables as “NA”. This
explains why the mean of my character variables was NA. I noted that for
my factor variables it assigned 3 of the same number for low, 3 of the
same number for medium, and 4 of the same number for high when
converting to numeric values. I also noted that my logical variables
consisted of only 0s and 1s, which explains why the mean for my logical
variables was between 0 and 1.
